# MikroTik OmniTIK 5 PoE ac

Product page: [MikroTik Routers and Wireless - Products: OmniTIK 5 PoE ac](https://mikrotik.com/product/rbomnitikpg_5hacd)

User manual: [OmniTIK series - User manuals - MikroTik Documentation](https://help.mikrotik.com/docs/spaces/UM/pages/14221325/OmniTIK+series)

Configuration guide: [MikroTik OmniTIK 5 PoE ac Router Configuration Guide](../guides/configuring-routers/omnitik.md)

Monitoring: Slack messages to \#monitoring-screams

Along with the [Ubiquity LightBeam AC Gen 2](litebeam.md), this is what most users have on their roofs.

We typically refer to this device as an "Omni."

This device runs MikroTik RouterOS, so it may be useful to consult the [RouterOS documentation](https://help.mikrotik.com/docs/). We've also started compiling documentation about common tasks in RouterOS in [RouterOS Tips](../guides/routeros-tips.md).


## Resetting

To reset the Omni's operating system (OS) to the default settings, follow these steps:

- Unplug the ethernet cable from the POE port on the Omni. This will turn off the router. 
- Hold down the reset button.
- While continuing to hold down the reset button, plug the ethernet cable back into the POE port. This powers on the router.
- Continue holding down the reset button until the power LED light starts flashing, about 5 seconds.
- Release the reset button and let the router continue to boot.
- You should see the default management wireless network appear, it will look smething like `Mikrotik-F32xxxx`.

There are additional functions of the reset button that are accessed by holding down the reset button for longer than 5 seconds. See the [Buttons and Jumpers](https://help.mikrotik.com/docs/spaces/UM/pages/14221325/OmniTIK+series#OmniTIKseries-ButtonsandJumpers) section of the OmniTIK user manual for more about these other functions.

## Beware the non-PoE version

All Omnis will be powered by PoE over port 1, however, some versions will provide PoE out on other ports while others will not. Generally, we use the PoE version to power a co-installed [LightBeam](litebeam.md) over port 5.

One way you can tell the difference is by entering this command in the router terminal `/system routerboard print`.

The value of the `model` item in the output will tell you if the router has PoE output or not:

- RBOmniTikU-5HnD: OmniTIK 5 without PoE
- RBOmniTikUPA-5HnD: OmniTIK 5 PoE with PoE
- RBOmniTikG-5HacD: OmniTIK 5 ac without PoE
- RBOmniTikPG-5HacD: OmniTIK 5 PoE ac with PoE

Using the default configuration generated by our configuration generator will fail on these commands, leaving the router in an unstable state:

```
/interface ethernet
set [ find default-name=ether1 ] comment="NN:$nodenumber"
set [ find default-name=ether2 ] poe-out=off
set [ find default-name=ether3 ] poe-out=off
set [ find default-name=ether4 ] poe-out=off
set [ find default-name=ether5 ] poe-out=forced-on comment="device to hub"
```
## Power over ethernet (PoE) injector

The PoE injector needed by the Omni provides a differ amount of power than the one used by the [LiteBeam](./litebeam.md), so they are not interchangeable. The LiteBeam PoE injector provides 24 V at 0.3 A for 7.2 W.

Ubiquiti also makes an injector that is 24 V at 1 A for 25 W, which might work. This injector is physically larger than the one used by LiteBeam.

